To build Oryx Mailstore from source, you need the Jam build tool,
available at http://www.perforce.com/jam/jam.html as well as in most
Linux/BSD distributions.

To run Mailstore you need PostgreSQL, version 7.4.2 or any later
version. (7.4 and 7.4.1 may also work; we haven't tested that.)

Building and installing Mailstore is a five-step process:

1. Edit Jamsettings to reflect your preferences. Note that in Jam,
   variable assignments require spaces: "A = b ;" is good, "A=b;" is a
   syntax error.

2. Type 'jam' to build and 'jam install' as root to install the
   programs and other files.

3. If you configured ORYXUSER and ORYXGROUP to something special, make
   sure that user and that group exist.

   Create the PostgreSQL user, mailstore and tables needed, as well as
   the mailstore.conf file. You can do this automatically using the
   script LIBDIR/installer (/usr/local/mailstore/lib/installer by
   default), or you can do it by hand. If you run LIBDIR/installer -n,
   it does nothing except tell you exactly what needs to be done.

3. If mailstore.conf was created automatically for you, you may want
   to have a look at it and perhaps change something. It's not
   necessary.

   The man page for mailstore.conf explains all the possible settings.

At this point, you're ready to run "INITDIR/rcmailstore start" to start
Mailstore. After a change, "rcmailstore restart" restarts.

Create the Mailstore users you need, e.g.

      ms create user nirmala pw nirmala@example.org

to create a user with login "nirmala", password "pw" and email address
"nirmala@example.org".

There are mailing lists for Mailstore users and announcements. To
subscribe to the users list, send mail:

   To: mailstore-users-request@oryx.com
   Subject: subscribe

   subscribe

To subscribe to the low-volume announcements list, send mail:

   To: mailstore-announce-request@oryx.com
   Subject: subscribe

   subscribe

If you encounter any problems or have any suggestions, please write to
info@oryx.com. Your comments help us improve Mailstore.
